README.md, before:

# StoneAgeFactorio
A Factorio mod that introduces a new "Stone Age" stage before the burner / electricity stage.

## Why?
I like how Factorio's early game differs drastically from the rest in terms of gameplay. In stead of designing builds, you're running around hand-filling burner miners and smelters. Raw products like iron and copper plates are more something to achieve in small batches than continuous capacities to scale up. That's not to say that I would want to spend hours hand-crafting and baby-sitting miners, but I like the variation.

I want to extend this early stage and add even more variation in gameplay. The goal is to introduce a "Stone Age" stage that comes before burner miners, with gameplay distinctly different from vanilla early game. Specifically, it should be even harder: I want your first pick-axe and your first burner-miner to feel like as much an achievement as your first assembler.

## Status
I'm currently working on an alpha version that showcases the gameplay. It has a lot of placeholder graphics and sounds that will eventually need to be replaced with original content.

## Want to help?
Great! I'm currently recruiting alpha testers: just add a comment on [this issue](https://github.com/StoneAgeFactorio/StoneAgeFactorio/issues/4) if you'd like to play-test this mod.

I'm also looking for help with creating original graphics and sounds for the mod. If you'd like to help with that, please send me a message.

Commit message:

Feat: initial content
I've added items, entities and recipes for my initial content ideas.

It should play as follows:

* Mine dead tree by hand to get a wood stick.
* Use that to mine life trees as well.
* Use two sticks to produce a sharp stick, which lets you get vines from
  life trees as well.
* Use vines to produce a basket, which lets you mine sand patches.
* Use sand and wood sticks to produce campfire.
* Use campfire to turn sharp stick into fire-hardened stick, which lets
  you mine stone for jagged rocks.
* Use two jagged rocks to produce knapped rock.
* Knapped rock turns into stone hammer, and into stone axe and shovel
  when combined with sticks and vines.
* Stone shovel lets you mine dry clay from clay matches, stone axe lets
  you get raw wood from trees and malachite from copper ore patches.
* Shovel lets you build a mixing pit, which connects to a wood pump made
  from wood, sticks and vines. This lets you turn dry clay into clay.
* Clay lets you make a grate in the campfire. A grate, campfire and more
  clay turn into a kiln.
* Use sand to make a charcoal pile, which turns wood into charcoal.
* Burn charcoal in the kiln to turn malachite into a copper bloom.
* Use stone hammer to turn copper bloom into crude copper.
* Crude copper plus a stick produces the copper axe, which lets you mine
  vanilla ores.
* After that you can make a furnace, smelt iron, and make an iron axe.

I've playtested this gameplay a couple of times, and found it to work in
principle. More tweaking may be required to make it pleasant, but I'd
like feedback from alpha testers first.

README.md, after:

# Stone Age Factorio
This Factorio mod introduces a new "Stone Age" stage before the burner / electricity stage. It doesn't lock any technology, and there is no additional research. It's just that you start the game without any materials, and you can't mine resources without a tool anymore. So the only way to get that sweet, sweet iron axe and progress to the "iron age", is to make increasingly complex tools that let you mine more and more materials. This provides a good fifteen minutes of extra content before you progress to burner miners.

## Tips
* Stone Age is centered around tool use. Which tool you currently have equiped determines what resources you can mine, and what those resources yield.
* Your goal is building a copper axe: that will let you mine every ore, rocks, etc.. It wears out quickly though, so you'd do well to make an iron axe as soon as possible.
* Once you clear the Stone Age, keep a backup iron axe in a chest in case your current axe wears out and you don't have the materials to make another one.
* Stone Age technology breaks easily: always make more than one so you don't have to start from scratch if something wears out.
* There are sand and clay patches around your spawning point that you'll need. Having trouble finding them? A deconstruction planner might help.

## Why?
I like how vanilla Factorio's early game differs drastically from the rest in terms of gameplay. In stead of designing builds, you're running around hand-filling burner miners and smelters. Raw products like iron and copper plates are more something to achieve in small batches than continuous capacities to scale up. That's not to say that I would want to spend hours hand-crafting and baby-sitting miners, but I like the variation.

I want to extend this early stage and add even more variation in gameplay. The goal is to add a stage that comes before burner miners, with gameplay distinctly different from vanilla early game. Specifically, it should be even harder: I want your first iron-axe and your first burner-miner to feel like as much an achievement as your first assembler.

## Status
I've just finished an alpha version that showcases the gameplay. It has a lot of placeholder graphics and sounds that will eventually need to be replaced with original content. It will also need some play-testing before I release it into the wild.

### Known issues
* When mining copper or stone ore with a primitive tool, a text like "+1 stone (0)" will briefly show up. This is a workaround for an API issue that [will be fixed in 0.17](https://forums.factorio.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=62285).

## Want to help?
Great! I'm currently recruiting alpha testers: just add a comment on [this issue](https://github.com/StoneAgeFactorio/StoneAgeFactorio/issues/4) if you'd like to play-test this mod.

I'm also looking for help with creating original graphics and sounds for the mod. If you'd like to help with that, please send me a message.
